So let me give you a tour
of the scratch editor,
we can see all the different pieces so
that we're familiar when I use terms or
when I point at things or when I reference
something, we know what I'm talking about.
Over here we have the stage, this is where
all of our hard work becomes manifest.
If you need more room,
you can make it a little smaller.
You can make it bigger.
You can make it really big if you
just want to see the end result and
just like revel in all
of your amazing work.
Then we have a bunch of sprites.
Right now we have one sprite.
I had to look this up.
The cat's name is Arnold, okay?
He has a name.
It's Arnold.
That's his name.
Just sprites you program
each sprite independently.
If you want to make a new sprite,
you can go over here where you can search
through the entire library of sprites.
With a whole bunch of different options.
You can upload one that you have,
or what I like, and I might spend,
I will not do too much during this
workshop because let me tell you
the rabbit hole that I will go
into of you can kind of paint and
draw your own sprite and
kinda create your own art as you go along.
On a given sprite,
they have multiple costumes.
Now if you can see, these costumes can
be used for a bunch of different things.
They can be totally different
looks if you're making a story.
In this case, the two costumes,
if you went back and forth real quick,
almost look like Arnold is walking, right?
So you might rotate between two different
costumes on a sprite to create the look
that your sprite is walking.
On a sprite,
you can also just kind of go back and
forth between these two tabs costumes,
code, costumes, code.
There is also a tab called sounds.
Now, I used to be a middle school teacher.
I know how this goes.
I'm going to act like
this tab does not exist.
[LAUGH] At no point
are we touching this tab.
Because I know what happens.
Cool, so we've got the code,
we got the costumes on a given sprite,
you can switch between them.
One way if you're in the code to see
what sprite you're working with is,
doesn't really help with a blank one.
But you can go ahead,
you'll see this sprite up in this corner.
At one point today, either you or
me will add code to the wrong sprite and
then wonder why our stuff isn't working,
right?
At one point you could even
add some code to the backdrop.
At one point I might look in
here which has fewer options and
wonder where my code is.
Someone to remind me or
it might be you, but
at one point you'll be in the wrong area.
It's okay.
It happens to the best of us.
You can also click on the sprite itself,
double click on it,
to switch over to that sprite as well.
All right, so
we talked about adding a sprite.
I'm going to get rid of this blank one.
We've got the code.
We've got the costumes.
We'll talk about the blocks in a second.
There's also the ability to add backdrops,
so you can choose a backdrop.
Do we have a favorite one right now?
Which one?
>> The basketball 1.
>> Basketball.
>> Which is right there.
There we go, cool.
So now I can set the scene.
Again, you can upload your own art.
You can draw your own art.
You can do whatever you want.
We will do some of that
today when we need it.
You can have multiple backdrops and
switch between them the same way
that you switch between costumes.
All right, we're almost, we got like
one or two more things left here.
Next, we've got the main event which is
all the different code blocks that we can
snap together.
Let's talk about some
of the categories here.
Motion, does what you think it does.
It moves your sprite a whole bunch of
different ways whether it's left and
right and we'll talk about
what that means in a second,
turning it in a given direction,
all sorts of different options.
Looks, this is useful if you want to make
it talk, you want to change the costume
from one with the right foot forward
to the one with the left foot forward.
Or if you're writing a story,
if they want to change actual costumes.
You can do color effects,
which at one point you will do,
just because I can't stop you.
Sound doesn't exist.
Events, these are the main thing,
which is something has to happen in
order to trigger your code to run.
The most common one is this
when green flag is clicked.
This is the green flag.
When you click the green flag,
whatever comes after when green flag
is clicked is what happens next.
That's how this works.
You can also do stuff when
a given key is pressed.
You can do, when the sprite is clicked,
various things.
For my adult friends in the room, yeah,
it's kind of like events in JavaScript,
right?
Various things happen, you can have
a callback, same basic concept.
You might be like, well,
what happens if I have two green flags?
It's almost like there's an event loop
under the hood that is processing it with
everything, the same way it works in
the browser cuz it's in the browser.
There's also this idea
to receive a message.
So any given event is a node,
any given sprite can trigger a message
that gets broadcast and then any other
sprite that cares can listen to it.
If that'll make sense to you,
we will talk about it in context later.
Control, here we have a bunch of
different ways to rationalize our code.
We can say, like, hey,
if this, then do that.
Otherwise, do the other thing.
Or repeat this ten times.
Different ways to kind of have
control flow in our code.
Then we've got sensing, which is like,
okay, if it's touching the mouse pointer,
if it's touching this other sprite,
if a given key is being pressed.
A bunch of ways of like
what is going on in terms
of the actual interaction with
other sprites in the game.
Operators because it's summer
who doesn't love math, right?
At some point you might need to add
thing see if your health is less than 0,
game over, right or your points
are more than 100 you win, right?
A lot of different kinds of ways to think
about the different values in your game.
If the word apple contains the letter A,
various things you might slot into
the different control blocks.
Now, if you look, each one of these
has a different shape and at no point,
if we look in the control section,
there's a diamond shape.
Guess what goes in the diamond
shape in the control blocks?
The diamond shaped ones here, right?
It's like Legos, if you try to put
the circle blocks into the diamond holes,
it's not going to work super well for
you, right?
And yeah, it's okay.
We've got this idea of variables, which
is occasionally we need to hold on and
store information.
We'll talk about that in a little bit.
We can change them, stuff that.
And then blocks, which are the ability
make our own custom blocks
that we might need at various points.
Yeah Chloe.
>> You can go to the bottom left corner-
>> Right here.
>> And get more blocks.
>> Yep we will do that towards the end
there's also a bunch of extensions that
you can install.
We will be using the Pen one today.
And I'll show you the video
sensing one cause it's cool.
But you can also if you've got like Makey
Makey skills like this little controller,
you can hook up to a banana, or you
make your banana into a game controller.
As well some Lego Mindstorms and
some other hardware stuff
that you can plug in as well.
You can also make music as if there
was sound supported on this, but
I don't think there is.
There is.
And then lastly, down here very subtly
is this thing called the backpack.
The backpack is a way to transfer
stuff in between projects.
>> If you go to search first right and
you're too lazy to type in donut,
you can type homer and you'll get a donut.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Today I learned [LAUGH]
today I learned bonus lesson
from my teaching assistant.
You all saw the backpack.
So a backpack is a way let's say you
made a bunch of really cool sprites for
one game and you're making the SQL.
Write the backpack is a way that you
can take stuff from one project,
put in the backpack.
You can bring it to the next project,
right?
You can't really copy and
paste between projects, but
you can move it into the backpack,
move it out of the backpack.
You can take like common code
blocks that you might use.
And put them in or out the backpack
various sprites so on and so forth.
So anything that you might be using more
than once, you can put it the backpack, or
if you need to just move something
from one project to the next cuz yeah,
I love this sprite that I made,
you put in the backpack.
You take it out of the backpack,
you're good to go.
The only other thing to kind of point
out is there's some zoom controls.
We'll talk about some of the sprite
controls in a little bit.
But also right clicking or
to finger clicking for
most of us born in the modern era will
give you the ability to delete a block.
The other way that is a lot easier.
Take it, you drag it back where you
got it from, it goes away, right?
That's the large amount of the editor.
You can save stuff.
You can make a new one.
Other than that,
I think we've got most of what we need to
kind of we understand the lay of the land.
And we can go and
start to get our first sprite moving.